# Distributed_PSG
Final project of the Electrical Engineering course, made by Felipe Britto Azevedo Schneider. The goal of this project is to develop hardware and software capable of monitoring a patient thought the night with more comfort that is possible using the traditional method.
Article abstract:
The impairment of sleep quality directly rises the chances of heart attack, obesity, and strokes, among others, what makes the polysomnography (PSG) an important public health tool. However, the inherent problems with PSG makes the correct diagnosis of sleep diseases a difficult task. This work presents a distributed novel class III PSG system, composed of three boards, all together capable of monitoring simultaneously environmental variables and patient signals. This system reduces the distress of a PSG exam, dismiss the need for an overnight sleep in a health care/sleep center, facilitates a self-set-up and an internet based diagnosis. Methods: Design and implementation of two wearable and one bedside PCB boards that together are able to, synchronously, monitor, process and log into a microSD card environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, visible light intensity and audible noise level) together with patient signals (electrocardiogram, electrooculogram, body, and limbs position). Results: A novel class III PSG system with independent boards capable of operating for more than 16 hours powered by a 750 mAh, 3.7 V battery with 0.003% data loss during preliminary PSG exams. Additionally, a computer-based program capable of reading, decode and present the data in graphs was developed and is presented. Conclusion: This article contributes to the PSG research and with the development of new PSG systems as well as the improvement of patients comfort. All code and hardware here developed are open.